About

Provides the ability to render video from a GStreamer pipeline to a QML-based
UI, with opengl acceleration.

Building

You need qt development libraries, qt-opengl, qt-mobility, xv and gstreamer.

qmake
make
make install

Testing

cd tests
qmake
make
./test

Using

The makefile should install both pkgconfig .pc files as well as qmake
.prl files. See the tests/test.pro for an example of using the library
with qmake. Once installed, the following should give the required
compiler flags:

pkg-config --libs --cflags qt-gst-qml-sink

Hacking

The library is heavily based on code from qt-mobility. At this time,
qt-mobility is still a dependency. The following files are the most
important:

- qpaintervideosurface.{cpp,h}
- qvideosurfacegstsink.{cpp,h}
- gstvideoitem.{cpp,h}

The core of the drawing code is in qpaintervideosurface.cpp. In this
file you will find both generic and opengl drawing routines, as well
as shader programs for colorspace conversion. Most of the
functionality is not implemented in the QPainterVideoSurface class
itself, but in delegate classes which are chosen at run-time based on
available features. Ther are three main delegate classes:

- a generic delegate, which merely uses QPainter as a back-end
- an opengl delegate which uses FragmentProgram shader programs
- an opengl delegate which uses Glsl shader programs

The gstreamer element is implemented in qvideosurfacegstsink.{cpp,h}.
Note that although this file is a C++ file, it implements a type
derived from GstBaseSink. There are again two parts to this object as
well: a class which implements the GType and a private delegate.

The actual graphics item is implemented in gstvideoitem.{cpp,h}. You
can use it from QML by registering the type with QML prior to loading
the qml resources. See the test program in the test directory. This item
is based on the QGraphicVideoItem provided by QtMM, so keep this in mind
if you are attempting to port patches from QTMM.

The other files in library are less central, but are needed to compile
those discussed above.

Future Goals:

- Remove qt-mobility dependency
- Simplify code (reduce the number of classes)
- Merge into QtGstreamer
